We are A.A.Murakami
and we are launching
a new installation called
The Moon Underwater
at the Mori Art Museum
in central Tokyo.
The Moon Underwater
is the most technically
ambitious project we've
attempted to date.
We work with
fleeting states of matter,
so where you meet the work
isn't through
technology interfaces,
like screens or projections,
but in fact
it's through bubbles
and fog rings and plasma.
For this piece
we were inspired by the
Japanese tradition
of moon-viewing,
which is the
appreciation of the moon
and how it is considered
to be the most beautiful
when it's seen
in reflection in water.
So we wanted to
create this kind of
nocturnal garden
to capture this feeling.
What people don't see
is actually
behind the surface.
We need the systems
to operate autonomously,
but entropy still creeps in.
Systems will run smoothly
until they encounter
the unpredictable.
And so we're able to
really work with Claude
to become the technician
that we leave behind.
We see it like a garden
and you're not really
aware of the gardener
that's silently keeping this
whole harmony working.
When you start talking to Claude,
you see the world
in a completely different way.
Claude's read every science paper
that is about bubbles,
or it seems that way,
and so we can talk to Claude about
why are the bubbles
bouncing on water,
why aren't they just
joining the water?
And once we understand
the physics
and the chemistry behind that,
we're able to go much further
with the work
and much deeper,
because it's like having
an expert
there on hand in the studio.
So it very much feels
like a team member
in that sense.
In the end,
The Moon Underwater
is about impermanence,
a reminder
that nothing lasts forever.
This is technology
returning to the realm of nature.
Alive, fleeting,
and full of mystery.
An art of disappearing
that makes us feel more present
while it lasts.